Diluc and Kaeya Solution (#1672)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/cf-1536C.mdx

---

> id: cf-1427G

Reviewer: wrong id? you also need to change kind to internal in the .problems.json file

source: CF
title: Diluc and Kaeya
author: Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/91520)

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
#include <unordered_map>
#include <algorithm>

using std::cout;
using std::endl;
using std::vector;

// https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1536/C (input ommited due to length)
int main() {
	int test_num;
	std::cin >> test_num;
	for (int t = 0; t < test_num; t++) {
		int len;
		std::cin >> len;

> 		vector<char> str(len);

Reviewer: why can't you just use a string instead of a char vector?

Author: don't wanna put an extra #include

Reviewer: I think the code would look cleaner and more straightforward with a string, but up to you

On an unrelated note, I think that strings usually do work without `#include <string>` but this is probably also implementation dependent

		for (char& c : str) {
			std::cin >> c;
		}
		
		int d_num = 0;
		int k_num = 0;
		vector<int> max_pref_chunks;
		std::unordered_map<int, std::unordered_map<int, int>> prev_ratios;
		for (char c : str) {
			if (c == 'D') {
				d_num++;
			} else if (c == 'K') {
				k_num++;
			}

> 			int gcd = std::__gcd(d_num, k_num);

Reviewer: you can use gcd from the numeric header in c++17

Author: don't wanna put an extra #include

---
id: cf-1536C
source: CF
title: Diluc and Kaeya
author: Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/91520)

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
#include <unordered_map>
#include <algorithm>

using std::cout;
using std::endl;
using std::vector;

int main() {
	int test_num;
	std::cin >> test_num;
	for (int t = 0; t < test_num; t++) {
		int len;
		std::cin >> len;
		vector<char> str(len);
		for (char& c : str) {
			std::cin >> c;
		}
		
		int d_num = 0;
		int k_num = 0;
		vector<int> max_pref_chunks;
		std::unordered_map<int, std::unordered_map<int, int>> prev_ratios;
		for (char c : str) {
			if (c == 'D') {
				d_num++;
			} else if (c == 'K') {
				k_num++;
			}

> 			// get the actual ratio by dividing both quantites by the gcd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			// get the simplified ratio by dividing both quantities by the gcd
```
same for java, python comments

> 			// get the simplified ratio by dividing both quantites by the gcd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			// get the simplified ratio by dividing both quantities by the gcd
```
typo... fix the java and python comments too

Author: lmao

			int gcd = std::__gcd(d_num, k_num);
			int d_ratio = d_num / gcd;
			int k_ratio = k_num / gcd;
			// add the ratio to the records and record the max prefix chunk amount

> 			max_pref_chunks.push_back(++prev_ratios[d_ratio][k_ratio]);

Reviewer 2: why not just `cout  << ++prev_ratios[d_ratio][k_ratio]` here

Author: whitespace is an absolute prick
